---
layout: post
title:      "My path to programming . . . "
date:       2018-02-10 03:17:04 +0000
permalink:  my_path_to_programming
---


For the past 5 years, I have been building my real estate business.  The majority of my business is working as a licensed real estate agent, representing buyers and sellers in their home purchases and sales.  I also have begun flipping properties.  I initially got into real estate at the suggestion of my father-in-law and had decent success right away.   Most things have come pretty easy to me, and this seemed to be no exception.  A couple years in, I was definitely questioning whether or not I was in the right profession.  I do thoroughly enjoy helping people find their home, because it is such a big moment in most people's lives, and I consider it an honor to be a part of that process.  The problem with real estate for me is the lack of mental challenge and stimulation.  The majority of my work is calling or emailing the appropriate parties to handle tasks relevant to my transactions.  There are occasions where I get to do some problem solving, such as finding ways out of severely financially distressed properties for my clients, however even these cases are more just about grunt work than they are about problem-solving.  I also flip properties, which I do enjoy, especially the design aspect.  Reconfiguring room spaces and choosing finishing materials is something a lot of people enjoy (hence why HGTV design shows are so popular).  

Toward the end of 2017, I knew I had to find something else, even though 2017 was by far my most profitable year.  I do enjoy real estate, and I don't think I will ever stop being involved in it in some way, but I knew I needed more.  

At this point, I'm not even sure how I stumbled across software engineering, but I am soooooooo thankful that I did.  It is the exact thing I needed in my life.  I just finished the Procedural Ruby section, and I know I am only doing very simple things at this point, but it is exhilarating.   I have been spending as much time as possible in the program, mostly because I just simply enjoy it.  I honestly get a little aggravated when I have to go on an appointment or handle something for my business, because it means I have to stop learning to program lol.  I am already getting the mental challenge and stimulation that I have been lacking for so long.  I honestly feel like I am getting "smarter" as well.  I know that sounds silly, but it actually makes a lot of sense.  Learning to program and starting to work with algorithms to solve problems really teaches you how to think, and how to approach problem solving in an entirely different way than I was used to.  I am already seeing the results in my business dealings, and even just in simple converstations with friends and family.  I feel like I see solutions so much more clearly, and I am also able to state why I see things a certain way much easier.  

I can honestly say I have never been happier.  I see where this is leading me and I am so excited and anxious to actually get through the course and be able to develop software.  In the beginning (which was literally last month lol - I went through the accelerated bootcamp which started on Jan 8th and started the full Web Developer program on Jan 23rd, a whole 17 days ago!) I wasn't sure if I would just do programming as a hobby or to enhance my business or to launch a few other business ideas I have been working on, but now I am 100% sure that I want to do this full-time.  I am so excited for the future because I feel like the ability to program yields unlimited opportunities.   Everyone should learn it!  Ok I'm getting anxious not learning Ruby, back to it! :)

